README.md, before:

# Tentacle Pi

Tentacle Pi is my little open source project for writing C drivers
and Python bindings for I2C sensors. 


Right know some drivers might be buggy (e.g. AM2315) and there is no
Python 3 support.


Why did I create this repository?

* For my project at the University I need a single repository that
 contains all necessary drivers.
 
* Besides that I want to learn how to write linux drivers for I2C sensors
 and Python C extensions.
 
* I want sensor drivers that are purely written in C for portability 
 and performance reasons.
 
* No additional dependencies like boost, wiringPi or quick2wire.

* Python 2.7 support! Because most of the single-board computers have Python 2.7 support
like Raspberry Pi, Raspberry Pi 2, Banana Pi, or BeagleBone Black.

* No hardcoded platform specific drivers.
 
* My goal is to support further I2C sensors in the future.
 
 
Supported I2C sensors are:

 * AM2315 (buggy)
 * BMP180
 * TSL2561
 * MCP9808
 * MPL115A2
 * LM75
 
 
## Supported platforms

Any arm powered single-board computer that runs a debian operaing system is more or less supported.

Tested platforms so far are:

 * Raspberry Pi
 * Raspberry Pi 2
 * Banana Pi
 
## Current Status / Bugs

I do not guarantee that any of these drivers are bug free. 
If you find a bug please let me know and create an issue.
If you are able to fix a bug please make a pull request :-).
 
## Installation
Install the following packages:

```bash
sudo apt-get install i2c-tools libi2c-dev python-dev
```

Configure I2C on your Raspberry Pi.  On the [Adafruit learning platform](https://learn.adafruit.com/) you will find a great tutorial 
[how to configure I2C](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruits-raspberry-pi-lesson-4-gpio-setup/configuring-i2c).
Besides that their products (AM2315, BMP180, TSL2561) are great :smile_cat: .

### pip installer

```bash
sudo pip install tentacle_pi
```

### from source
Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/lexruee/tentacle_pi
```

Install the python module:

```bash
sudo python setup.py install
```

If you have already a copy of this repository you can run this command to update your local copy:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## Sensors - I2C addresses

| I2C devic     | Address       | Spec sheet |
| ------------- |:-------------:|:-----------| 
| am2315        | 0x5c          | [Link](https://www.adafruit.com/datasheets/AM2315.pdf) |
| bmp180        | 0x77          | [Link](http://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/products/dokumente/bmp180/BST-BMP180-DS000-09.pdf) |
| tsl2561       | 0x29,0x39,0x49| [Link](http://www.adafruit.com/datasheets/TSL2561.pdf) |
| mcp9808       | 0x18          | [Link](http://www.farnell.com/datasheets/1522173.pdf) |
| mpl115a2      | 0x60          | [Link](http://cache.freescale.com/files/sensors/doc/data_sheet/MPL115A2.pdf) |
| lm75      	| 0x48          | [Link](http://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/LM75.pdf) |


Remarks:

 * tsl2561: default address is 0x39


## Sensors - Usage

### AM2315

```python

import time
from tentacle_pi.AM2315 import AM2315
am = AM2315(0x5c,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
	temperature, humidity, crc_check = am.sense()
	print "temperature: %0.1f" % temperature
	print "humidity: %0.1f" % humidity
	print "crc: %s" % crc_check
	print
	time.sleep(2)


```

### BMP180

```python
from tentacle_pi.BMP180 import BMP180
import time
bmp = BMP180(0x77,"/dev/i2c-1")


for x in range(0,10):
        print "temperature: %0.1f" % bmp.temperature()
        print "pressure: %s" % bmp.pressure()
        print "altitude: %0.1f" % bmp.altitude()
        print
        time.sleep(2)

```


### TSL2561

```python
from tentacle_pi.TSL2561 import TSL2561
import time

tsl = TSL2561(0x39,"/dev/i2c-1")
tsl.enable_autogain()
tsl.set_time(0x00)

for x in range(0,10):
	print "lux %s" % tsl.lux()
	print
	time.sleep(3)

```

### MCP9808

```python
import time
from tentacle_pi.MCP9808 import MCP9808
mcp = MCP9808(0x18,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
        temperature = mcp.temperature()
        print "temperature: %0.2f" % temperature
        time.sleep(2)
        

```

### MPL115A2

```python
import time
from tentacle_pi.MPL115A2 import MPL115A2
mpl = MPL115A2(0x60,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
    temperature, pressure = mpl.temperature(), mpl.pressure()
    print "temperature: %0.1f" % temperature
    print "pressure: %0.1f" % pressure
    print
    time.sleep(2)


```

### LM75

```python
import time
from tentacle_pi.LM75 import LM75
lm = LM75(0x48,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
        temperature = lm.temperature()
        print "temperature: %0.2f" % temperature
        time.sleep(2)


```

## Example: A simple CLI weather station

```python
from tentacle_pi.TSL2561 import TSL2561
from tentacle_pi.BMP180 import BMP180
from tentacle_pi.AM2315 import AM2315
import time
from datetime import datetime

# initialize some sensors :-)
bmp = BMP180(0x77, "/dev/i2c-1")
tsl = TSL2561(0x39, "/dev/i2c-1")
am = AM2315(0x5c, "/dev/i2c-1")

tsl.enable_autogain()

print("---------------------------------------------")
print("time: %s" % datetime.now())
print("")
print("bmp180:")
print("\ttemperature: %0.1f" % bmp.temperature())
print("\tpressure: %0.1f" % bmp.pressure())
print("\taltitude: %0.1f" % bmp.altitude())

print("tsl2561:")
print("\tlux: %s" % tsl.lux())

print("am2315:")
am_tmp, am_hum, _ = am.sense()
print("\ttemperature: %0.1f" % am_tmp)
print("\thumidity: %0.1f" % am_hum)
print("---------------------------------------------")
print("")
# use time.sleep(2) inside a loop because of the AM2315 sensor!

```

## Dependencies

* i2c-tools 
* libi2c-dev
* python-dev
* python 2.7


## Changelog

##### 0.5.0
  * update drivers / synchronize drivers with master branch
  * add support for i2c sensor LM75

##### 0.4.0
  * MPL115A2 driver
   * use the suggested temperature formula in http://forums.adafruit.com/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=34787

##### 0.3.0
  * add support for i2c sensor MPL115A2

##### 0.2.0
  * add support for i2c sensor MCP9808

##### 0.1.0
  * first release
  * add support for i2c sensor BMP180
  * add support for i2c sensor AM2315
  * add support for i2c sensor TSL2561

Commit message:

add upgrade remark using pip installer

README.md, after:

# Tentacle Pi

Tentacle Pi is my little open source project for writing C drivers
and Python bindings for I2C sensors. 


Right know some drivers might be buggy (e.g. AM2315) and there is no
Python 3 support.


Why did I create this repository?

* For my project at the University I need a single repository that
 contains all necessary drivers.
 
* Besides that I want to learn how to write linux drivers for I2C sensors
 and Python C extensions.
 
* I want sensor drivers that are purely written in C for portability 
 and performance reasons.
 
* No additional dependencies like boost, wiringPi or quick2wire.

* Python 2.7 support! Because most of the single-board computers have Python 2.7 support
like Raspberry Pi, Raspberry Pi 2, Banana Pi, or BeagleBone Black.

* No hardcoded platform specific drivers.
 
* My goal is to support further I2C sensors in the future.
 
 
Supported I2C sensors are:

 * AM2315 (buggy)
 * BMP180
 * TSL2561
 * MCP9808
 * MPL115A2
 * LM75
 
 
## Supported platforms

Any arm powered single-board computer that runs a debian operaing system is more or less supported.

Tested platforms so far are:

 * Raspberry Pi
 * Raspberry Pi 2
 * Banana Pi
 
## Current Status / Bugs

I do not guarantee that any of these drivers are bug free. 
If you find a bug please let me know and create an issue.
If you are able to fix a bug please make a pull request :-).
 
## Installation
Install the following packages:

```bash
sudo apt-get install i2c-tools libi2c-dev python-dev
```

Configure I2C on your Raspberry Pi.  On the [Adafruit learning platform](https://learn.adafruit.com/) you will find a great tutorial 
[how to configure I2C](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruits-raspberry-pi-lesson-4-gpio-setup/configuring-i2c).
Besides that their products (AM2315, BMP180, TSL2561) are great :smile_cat: .

### pip installer

```bash
sudo pip install tentacle_pi
```

If you want to update:

```bash
sudo pip install tentacle_pi --upgrade
```

### from source
Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/lexruee/tentacle_pi
```

Install the python module:

```bash
sudo python setup.py install
```

If you have already a copy of this repository you can run this command to update your local copy:

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## Sensors - I2C addresses

| I2C devic     | Address       | Spec sheet |
| ------------- |:-------------:|:-----------| 
| am2315        | 0x5c          | [Link](https://www.adafruit.com/datasheets/AM2315.pdf) |
| bmp180        | 0x77          | [Link](http://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/products/dokumente/bmp180/BST-BMP180-DS000-09.pdf) |
| tsl2561       | 0x29,0x39,0x49| [Link](http://www.adafruit.com/datasheets/TSL2561.pdf) |
| mcp9808       | 0x18          | [Link](http://www.farnell.com/datasheets/1522173.pdf) |
| mpl115a2      | 0x60          | [Link](http://cache.freescale.com/files/sensors/doc/data_sheet/MPL115A2.pdf) |
| lm75      	| 0x48          | [Link](http://datasheets.maximintegrated.com/en/ds/LM75.pdf) |


Remarks:

 * tsl2561: default address is 0x39


## Sensors - Usage

### AM2315

```python

import time
from tentacle_pi.AM2315 import AM2315
am = AM2315(0x5c,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
	temperature, humidity, crc_check = am.sense()
	print "temperature: %0.1f" % temperature
	print "humidity: %0.1f" % humidity
	print "crc: %s" % crc_check
	print
	time.sleep(2)


```

### BMP180

```python
from tentacle_pi.BMP180 import BMP180
import time
bmp = BMP180(0x77,"/dev/i2c-1")


for x in range(0,10):
        print "temperature: %0.1f" % bmp.temperature()
        print "pressure: %s" % bmp.pressure()
        print "altitude: %0.1f" % bmp.altitude()
        print
        time.sleep(2)

```


### TSL2561

```python
from tentacle_pi.TSL2561 import TSL2561
import time

tsl = TSL2561(0x39,"/dev/i2c-1")
tsl.enable_autogain()
tsl.set_time(0x00)

for x in range(0,10):
	print "lux %s" % tsl.lux()
	print
	time.sleep(3)

```

### MCP9808

```python
import time
from tentacle_pi.MCP9808 import MCP9808
mcp = MCP9808(0x18,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
        temperature = mcp.temperature()
        print "temperature: %0.2f" % temperature
        time.sleep(2)
        

```

### MPL115A2

```python
import time
from tentacle_pi.MPL115A2 import MPL115A2
mpl = MPL115A2(0x60,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
    temperature, pressure = mpl.temperature(), mpl.pressure()
    print "temperature: %0.1f" % temperature
    print "pressure: %0.1f" % pressure
    print
    time.sleep(2)


```

### LM75

```python
import time
from tentacle_pi.LM75 import LM75
lm = LM75(0x48,"/dev/i2c-1")

for x in range(0,10):
        temperature = lm.temperature()
        print "temperature: %0.2f" % temperature
        time.sleep(2)


```

## Example: A simple CLI weather station

```python
from tentacle_pi.TSL2561 import TSL2561
from tentacle_pi.BMP180 import BMP180
from tentacle_pi.AM2315 import AM2315
import time
from datetime import datetime

# initialize some sensors :-)
bmp = BMP180(0x77, "/dev/i2c-1")
tsl = TSL2561(0x39, "/dev/i2c-1")
am = AM2315(0x5c, "/dev/i2c-1")

tsl.enable_autogain()

print("---------------------------------------------")
print("time: %s" % datetime.now())
print("")
print("bmp180:")
print("\ttemperature: %0.1f" % bmp.temperature())
print("\tpressure: %0.1f" % bmp.pressure())
print("\taltitude: %0.1f" % bmp.altitude())

print("tsl2561:")
print("\tlux: %s" % tsl.lux())

print("am2315:")
am_tmp, am_hum, _ = am.sense()
print("\ttemperature: %0.1f" % am_tmp)
print("\thumidity: %0.1f" % am_hum)
print("---------------------------------------------")
print("")
# use time.sleep(2) inside a loop because of the AM2315 sensor!

```

## Dependencies

* i2c-tools 
* libi2c-dev
* python-dev
* python 2.7


## Changelog

##### 0.5.0
  * update drivers / synchronize drivers with master branch
  * add support for i2c sensor LM75

##### 0.4.0
  * MPL115A2 driver
   * use the suggested temperature formula in http://forums.adafruit.com/viewtopic.php?f=25&t=34787

##### 0.3.0
  * add support for i2c sensor MPL115A2

##### 0.2.0
  * add support for i2c sensor MCP9808

##### 0.1.0
  * first release
  * add support for i2c sensor BMP180
  * add support for i2c sensor AM2315
  * add support for i2c sensor TSL2561
